

# Cons
- "Keep in mind that any clothing can help protect skin from UV radiation, even if it is not specified as being "sun protective", although the type and color of fabric influences its effectiveness. Fabric that is dark or bright (e.g., red, black or navy) and fabric that is less porous (e.g., polyester, cotton blends, fabric used in polo shirts) tends to protect against UV radiation better than light-colored fabrics (e.g., pastels, yellow, or white) and fabrics that are porous (e.g. linen, knitted fabrics) (Aguilera, Photochem Photobiol 2014; Davis, Int J Dermatol 2008)." [1]
- "Whether sun-protection clothing protects against UV radiation better than regular clothing depends on the fabric. A study that compared the UV protection of regular cotton clothing (a white cotton t-shirt, a dark gray cotton t-shirt, and denim) with sun-protection clothing showed that all sun-protection clothing and most of the cotton clothing provided UPF rating of >50 — except the white t-shirt which had a UPF of only 9. In fact, other than the white t-shirt, results for all were much higher than 50 but ratings above 50 aren’t considered to provide significantly more protection. All the fabrics provided broad spectrum coverage. Interestingly, a sun-protection fabric that included zinc oxide and titanium dioxide provided slightly lower UVA protection than any of the other fabrics, including the cotton pieces (Coyne, J Am Acad Dermatol 2018). All the fabrics had similar or better UVA protection than mineral (zinc oxide or titanium dioxide) and chemical sunscreens evaluated in an earlier study (Diffey, J Am Acad Dermatol 2000)." [1]
- "Brands such as Coolibar and Craghoppers' SolarShield fabrics have a UV finish that might wash away with repeated laundering, which may significantly reduce the original UPF rating (although, as noted above, the UPF rating may still exceed 50 even after numerous washes). Coolibar states on its website that its UPF 50+ protection "never" washes out, even after "dozens and dozens" of washes, but it is unclear from this statement whether the UPF rating declines compared to the original rating. Some brands that do not have a UV finish are AmberNoon, Bloq UV, Columbia's Omni-Shade fabrics, L.L.Bean's SunSmart fabrics, Solbari, and Solumbra. Keep in mind, however, that, even among products without UV finishes, washing in hot water or using fabric softener may cause the fabrics to stretch, which can also reduce the sun protection." [1]

# Products
- [Coolibar](https://www.coolibar.com)

# References
- [1] [What is the best sunscreen based on safety and efficacy? (2023)](https://www.consumerlab.com/answers/cancer-causing-compounds-benzene-benzophenone-in-sunscreen/carcinogens-sunscreen/#regular-vs-sun-protection-clothing)
